# Hospitality-analysis-Project
Conducted in-depth analysis of booking statuses, revenue realized, and customer ratings to assess operational efficiency and guest satisfaction

All the files are created using below Data. This file contains all the meta information regarding the columns described in the CSV files. we have provided 5 CSV files:

dim_date
dim_hotels
dim_rooms
fact_aggregated_bookings
fact_bookings
Column Description for dim_date:

date: This column represents the dates present in May, June and July.
mmm yy: This column represents the date in the format of mmm yy (monthname year).
week no: This column represents the unique week number for that particular date.
day_type: This column represents whether the given day is Weekend or Weekeday.
Column Description for dim_hotels:

property_id: This column represents the Unique ID for each of the hotels.
property_name: This column represents the name of each hotel.
category: This column determines which class[Luxury, Business] a particular hotel/property belongs to.
city: This column represents where the particular hotel/property resides in.
Column Description for dim_rooms:

room_id: This column represents the type of room[RT1, RT2, RT3, RT4] in a hotel.
room_class: This column represents to which class[Standard, Elite, Premium, Presidential] particular room type belongs.
Column Description for fact_aggregated_bookings:

property_id: This column represents the Unique ID for each of the hotels.
check_in_date: This column represents all the check_in_dates of the customers.
room_category: This column represents the type of room[RT1, RT2, RT3, RT4] in a hotel.
successful_bookings: This column represents all the successful room bookings that happen for a particular room type in that hotel on that particular date.
capacity: This column represents the maximum count of rooms available for a particular room type in that hotel on that particular date.
Column Description for fact_bookings:

booking_id: This column represents the Unique Booking ID for each customer when they booked their rooms.
property_id: This column represents the Unique ID for each of the hotels
booking_date: This column represents the date on which the customer booked their rooms.
check_in_date: This column represents the date on which the customer check-in(entered) at the hotel.
check_out_date: This column represents the date on which the customer check-out(left) of the hotel.
no_guests: This column represents the number of guests who stayed in a particular room in that hotel.
room_category: This column represents the type of room[RT1, RT2, RT3, RT4] in a hotel.
booking_platform: This column represents in which way the customer booked his room.
ratings_given: This column represents the ratings given by the customer for hotel services.
booking_status: This column represents whether the customer cancelled his booking[Cancelled], successfully stayed in the hotel[Checked Out] or booked his room but not stayed in the hotel[No show].
revenue_generated: This column represents the amount of money generated by the hotel from a particular customer.
revenue_realized: This column represents the final amount of money that goes to the hotel based on booking status. If the booking status is cancelled, then 40% of the revenue generated is deducted and the remaining is refunded to the customer. If the booking status is Checked Out/No show, then full revenue generated will goes to hotels.
